
                 --------------------------------------------
                 FFTW -- Fast, Parallel FFT for OpenMP TINKER
                 --------------------------------------------

      This directory contains FFTW-3.3.3 which is the preferred FFT
      method for use with the OpenMP version of TINKER. The FFTPACK
      code provided by TINKER can be used instead (via modifications
      to fft3d.f), but FFTPACK is serial only.

      Building FFTW on Mac OSX and on Linux:

      Under OSX and Linux, TINKER requires the two FFTW static object
      libraries, libfftw3.a and libfftw3_threads.a. To build FFTW using
      the GNU compilers, issue each of the commands indicated below.
      Note that the 'setenv" syntax is for csh/tcsh shells, and should
      be modified for other shells. Also, the --prefix in the "configure"
      command should be changed to the correct path on the local machine
      (ie, the current /fftw area under the TINKER tree).

      setenv CC gcc          (or use "export CC=gcc" for bash)
      setenv F77 gfortran    (or use "export F77=gfortran" for bash)
      make distclean
      configure --prefix=/Users/ponder/tinker/fftw --enable-threads
      make
      make install

      The above "setenv" commands are for use of the GNU compilers. To
      use the Intel or PGI compilers, substitute "icc" or "pgcc" for
      "gcc", and "ifort" or "pgf95" for "gfortran".

      After completion of the above commands, the library files needed
      by TINKER will be in the /lib subdirectory.

      Note modified versions of the configure script are used to enforce
      processor-specific compiler flags. In particular, there are OSX
      and Linux versions for the Intel compiler that use -axssse3 and
      -axsse3, respectively, along with other optimization flags. The
      original file is available as "configure-orig".

      Note the configure option --enable-threads can be replaced with
      --enable-openmp, creating a libfftw3_omp.a library. Under OSX with
      recent versions of the Intel compilers, the threads library seems
      to give better OpenMP performance on large numbers of cores.

      Building FFTW on Windows:

      It is possible to build FFTW under Cygwin on Windows using the
      procedure outlined above for Linux and the GNU compilers. If this
      is done, then TINKER must be built with the same compilers.

      The Intel compilers can build FFTW on 64-bit Windows via Visual
      Studio and using the add-on /fftw-3.3-libs subdirectory obtained
      from the FFTW web site. This has been tested on 64-bit Windows 7
      with Visual Studio 2010. In Visual Studio, open the project file
      /fftw-3.3-libs/fftw-3.3-libs.sln. Then under the Project menu,
      use the Configuration Manager to select x64 and build the Static-
      Release version of only the libfftw library. The resulting .lib
      file can be copied to the TINKER /source area for linking. Note
      the config.h file in /fftw-3.3-libs/libfftw-3.3 has been modified
      to enable use of threads and the calling interface with Fortran. 

